Hi. My name is
Judson Waye, principal of Doctor Losier
Middle School in Miramichi, New Brunswick.
And I am here to talk about
the development of my core leadership team
and the distributive model of leadership
that we have in our school So today,
our core leadership team
meets every Tuesday morning for an hour.
So it's embedded in our schedule.
And the team focuses on not only,
operations of the building,
whether that's Challenge Cup or,
different things that we have going on.
But it also is a key driver in terms
of what leadership needs to look like,
making sure staff
are living our core values,
and making sure that everyone is informed
and has someone that they can,
they can advocate to it in a place?
So the desire to have a core leadership
team that was embedded
in, the day came from
first
we we realized, a couple of years ago
that we wanted to have
a core leadership group because we wanted
to, distribute
some of the leadership within the school.
At that time, my vice principal
and I realized that the staff was really
just looking to us as administration
to make
all the decisions within the building.
And they were very hands off.
And that wasn't really the model
that we wanted.
Wasn't a part of the vision,
whether it's at that time or now.
And so we really wanted to make sure
that we had more voice in how,
decisions were made,
whether for operations
or within the leadership
structure of the school.
We had initially started by having a group
that was meeting after school.
And like anything, when it meets after
school, it gets busy and it gets hectic.
And then people were missing meetings
and then we were canceling.
So once we realized that we had to had
to embedded
in the operation of the of the school
and put it into the schedule.
Then we started to have more success.
The biggest tip that I would have
for any administrator
is to look into your schedule
and find a time in the day.
I would suggest weekly
where your group can meet.
It's really important
to have a diverse group.
Not only just, your,
your administration,
or even some of your SS folks.
It's really important to have the voice
of teachers and other stakeholders.
Make sure you have a good mix of male
versus female
and different ages on your staff.
So all stakeholders can see themselves,
inside of the team.